hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and this is my review of the Microsoft
Lumia 950 and the 950 XL so I've had
both these phones for about a month the
XL a little bit longer and in the
beginning I had some pretty lukewarm
thoughts about these phones but I've
been using the XL as my daily driver
since I've gotten it here's my review
now both of them come in simple
cardboard boxes that kind of look like
surface devices you slide them open and
you get the phones pamphlets use bc
chargers and USB type a to type C cable
both of them are polycarbonate phones
and they have very similar builds they
remind me of the Nexus 5x so they're
really good for a plastic phone but it's
still a plastic phone and the material
flexes and creaks a little bit when you
squeeze it but they both feel durable
and the texture is nice I actually like
polycarbonate phones because they often
have removable backs and they're usually
less expensive but the Lumias are not
cheap the 950 costs $550 and the 950 XL
comes in at $650 so even though the
build quality is good they're priced a
little bit higher than your average
polycarbonate phone the design is simple
and clean and I really like the windows
logo on the back but I think a lot of
people will find it a little bit boring
something to note I've put the white 950
XL in the pocket of my jeans almost
every day for the past month and there's
no blue stains so that's good now going
around the phone there's a USB C port at
the bottom volume rocker power switch
and the camera button on the right and
headphone jack up top so the back cover
on the 950 juts out a little bit but the
back cover on the 950 XL is flush right
against the screen and it's actually a
very noticeable difference in feel when
you're holding the two so that ledge and
the smaller size of the 950 make it a
lot easier to hold
so the covers of both of them come off
pretty easily and on the inside you have
a removable battery a microSD slot and
two SIM card slots one of the sim card
slots is hidden behind the battery the
back cover also has the sticker things
for wireless charging and NFC so the
mics on these phones are very impressive
they use something called H AAC rich
audio and they record audio really
your voice calls sound really good but
despite having these really great mics
the speakers on the back of these phones
are pretty bad they get loud but they're
tinny and they're not stereo and worst
of all they project away from you so
when you're watching stuff on your phone
it's not a great experience the earpiece
upfront is also really clear it's got
noticeable better call quality than my
iPhone 6s and my 6p so call quality is a
thing that you kind of take for granted
but both of these Lumia phones really
nail it
they both have an AMOLED quad HD display
so that's 2560 by 1440 the 950 has a 5.2
inch screen with Gorilla Glass 3 and the
950 XL has a 5.7 inch screen with
Gorilla Glass 4 they're both incredibly
high resolution and really sharp but on
the same display settings colors on the
950 look a little dull in comparison but
at the same time warmer they're both
really good screens though they are
AMOLED panels so the black levels are
really nice and deep viewing angles are
good contrast is also really good and
the screens can get very bright but
there is a weird issue so the screen
needs to be on automatic brightness to
get really bright and if you have it on
manual even at max setting it's not easy
to see in sunlight but when you have it
on automatic and in sunlight the screen
gets super bright so I think this is
something that they should fix with the
software update on the top of the
display is an iris scanner that it uses
for a Microsoft hello so the idea of
iris recognition sounds really badass
but it doesn't work well it drains
batteries quickly and it fails a lot
like maybe thirty percent of the time it
wouldn't work now it's a feature that's
technically in beta and I know it will
improve over time but it'll always be
slow because no matter how fast your
camera is or how fast the processing is
you have to bring it up to your face to
make it work right and a fingerprint
sensor can unlock the instant that you
hold it so I don't think this tech gives
any benefit over a fingerprint sensor
they're both running Windows 10 mobile
and on the surface it actually looks a
little similar to Windows 8.1 mobile but
there's way more customizability than
before everything from tell transparency
color temperatures to linking tiles like
there's lots of cool features that 8.1
didn't have and Cortana runs really well
on the devices but man this thing has a
lot of bugs
so I've had to system updates since I've
been using the 950xl
and it gets noticeably better each time
but it still crashes in apps and crashes
in voice calls
it'll smoothen out over time but it's
weird to me that a device like this of
this calibre launched out of the door
with software like this there's also
that ever-present app cap that
everyone's aware of lots of popular and
important apps still aren't available on
Windows Phone it's frustrating and even
crippling for some users but I think
this is something that will change
pretty soon because Microsoft's been
developing software that would
essentially let I Oh s and Android
developers convert their existing
projects into visual studio projects
we'll have to see both of these phones
can use a feature called continuum and
in my opinion this is the most unique
feature of these phones the idea is that
you can connect a Lumia 950 or 950 XL to
a large screen to use the phone for
light computing tasks so you can connect
it wirelessly with an HDMI dongle or if
you want to do legite you can pick up
this $100 display dock which is
connected to a monitor now it doesn't
turn your phone into a computer which is
kind of how it looks like in promotional
materials it basically gives your phone
just like a big screen and the ability
to connect to peripherals like keyboards
and mice there's no split screen there's
no real multitasking and the month that
I've used it I found it moderately
useful because a lot of the apps I need
are missing but there are days when I
literally come into work and do nothing
except for emails Excel and make phone
calls for eight hours and on a day like
that the 950 XL with continuum could
handle it no problem but I really bring
a laptop to work and it just takes up
less space than all of these little
peripherals combined so I'm not sure how
useful it is for most people right now
now over the course of 2016 as
developers put in the time to make more
compatible apps it's going to become
more useful but as it stands it's kind
of a novelty feature now something to
notice the phones actually get pretty
warm when they're docks for continuum
and the performance of continuum is
better on the 950 XL over the 950 it's
not like a gigantic difference or
anything but you'll notice it when you
have multiple things open we've seen the
processors in these phones a dozen times
and they're very strong performers
especially the Snapdragon
in the 950xl and this time it has liquid
cooling to keep temperatures down so
you're going to see even less throttling
than before
games run well on both devices nothing
seems particularly laggy in Windows 10
mobile but when you compare it to a
nexus 6p and a 5x which run the same
processors the Nexus devices feel just a
little bit snappier but software updates
will probably speed things up for the
Windows Phones
both of these Lumias have the same f 1.9
20 megapixel camera and it's excellent
the thing is a lot of the flagship
smartphones right now take incredible
photos but I actually think the cameras
on the 950 and the 950 XL might be the
best it's tough to call a winner but
actually think it takes the image
quality crown mostly because of how good
the low-light shots are so daily photos
are excellent but these nighttime shots
are surprisingly good and if you're big
on manual controls the camera software
is really detailed the one downside to
this camera though is that it's a little
slow so loading up the app taking
pictures focusing everything feels a
little slow in comparison to like an
iPhone 6s or Nexus 6p the videos are
also really good but there's no video
editing software on the phone and apps
once again are very limited the battery
life is okay so for the 950 and the 950
XL you can get through a day if you're
using it really lightly but I had to
charge it up in the afternoon most days
I also noticed heavy battery drain when
idling so if you sleep for 8 hours you
wake up and has dropped like 15 to 20
percent and in comparison my Nexus 6p or
an iPhone 6s those will lose like 2 to 3
percent overnight I know it's a software
thing and it's going to get fixed but
it's still annoying right now alright
Lumia 950 and 950 XL
both of them have polycarbonate bodies
well-built but a little creaky excellent
call quality from the earpiece both of
them have really nice quad HD AMOLED
screens but they need to be on automatic
brightness to get really bright they
both have iris scanners up front that
are kind of slow and unreliable they
both have 5 megapixel front facing
cameras that are decent on the back they
both have the same 20 megapixel camera
that takes some of the best images of
smartphone cameras right now they also
both have rear-facing speakers that are
loud but tinny on the inside we have
batteries that currently only last about
a day of light use they have a
Snapdragon 808 or an 810 both of them
which have
things of RAM and they should be strong
performers but they're a little sluggish
because of software issues right now and
they both have double SIM card slots and
32 gigs of expandable storage ok so
aside from that iris scanner and the
speakers I would consider the hardware
on these phones really solid but because
of how expensive these phones are and
how limited the apps are but most
importantly how buggy Windows 10 mobile
is right now is really difficult for me
to recommend this phone to anyone if
you're an existing Windows Phone user I
would probably just use what you're
using right now just hold it a little
bit longer if you're an iOS or an
Android user there's really no
compelling reason to switch over to this
ecosystem not currently now continuum is
super cool I think what Microsoft is
trying to do has massive potential and
over time as everything kind of matures
I think it can actually replace
computers for certain users and that's
what this whole system needs it needs to
mature like the OS needs to mature the
app store needs immature and universal
apps need to become more readily
available and I think they will be by
the middle of 2016 and that's also when
Microsoft plans on releasing their
surface phones those will be better
built and the software will kind of be
ripened up for that hardware by then I
would totally wait for those that's the
end of this review hope you guys liked
it thumbs if you did subs if you loved
it it's been nice and I'll see you guys
next time